The Bible is a wonderful book.
It's a book that we should just enjoy reading.
So for this talk, I thought I'd give a couple of suggestions for adding to our reading pleasure.
Here's the first.
Don't pass quickly over the details.
Stop and investigate.
And at times, you'll be very glad you did.
Now let's take an example.
You're reading in the book of First Chronicles.
Now there are a lot of names in First Chronicles.
And you come across the name, Human.
If you were just interested in covering material, you'd probably pass over it and go on to the next verse.
But you're not in a rush.
And you notice a cross reference beside the name.
It refers to you to First Chronicles 633.
So you decide to investigate.
And in doing so, you'll learn something heartwarming about Jehovah.
Let's do that.
First Chronicles chapter 6.
I'll give you a moment.
And verse 33.
It says,
These are the men who served with their sons.
Of the co-affights, human, the singer, son of jewel, son of Samuel.
So this human was Samuel's grandson.
Now what do we know about his family situation?
Well, his father, Joel and his uncle, Abija, were judges.
But they had a terrible reputation.
They'd rule in your favor if you could pay enough.
But if you were poor, forget it.
And the whole country knew about it.
At one point, the Bible says that all the elders of Israel came to Samuel and said
they didn't want Joel and Abija as judges anymore.
They wanted a king.
Jehovah was furious.
And he couldn't have been too happy with Joel and Abija either.
Now can you imagine the effect that this corruption had on the reputation of human's family?
The shame?
But like Hezekiah,
human didn't allow his father's, by example, to paralyze him.
Human developed his own personal relationship with Jehovah.
How do we know?
We followed a few clues.
We followed a few cross-references.
And we came to Frisk Chronicles chapter 25 and verse 5.
Let's do that.
Frisk Chronicles chapter 25 and verse 5.
And again, we're trying to find something more about human.
It says all of these were sons of human,
a visionary of the king and matters pertaining to the true God to his glory.
Thus the true God gave human 14 sons and three daughters.
Did you see it?
A visionary of the king.
What was a visionary?
It was a kind of prophet.
Now let's see.
Samuel was a prophet.
And now, human was a prophet.
Do you see what's heartwarming?
Jehovah was dealing with human in much the same way he had dealt with his grandfather.
Jehovah does not hold the sins of the fathers against the sons.
That is something very, very nice to remember.
And can you see where this example would help some people, you know?
Some, even in full-time service, have a hard time with it because they had a rough family background.
And they may feel that they're worthless.
Mary is a case in point.
I'm going to call her Mary.
Now, Mary's father was so violent that at times Mary, her mom and her siblings had to get up in the middle of the night and run for their lives.
And to the neighbors, they were that family.
To make it worse, they were poor.
So all this made Mary feel worthless.
Until?
Until the day when she started studying with the witnesses.
She developed her own relationship with Jehovah and she accepted him as her father.
And today, Mary's a pioneer.
How does she feel about her life?
Here's what she wrote.
Jehovah is constantly looking for those who want a friendship with him.
And here's a touching point.
He's even looking into the hearts of children.
Isn't that nice?
Now, there are two lessons here.
As humans' example shows, our family background doesn't define who we are.
Jehovah will deal with us as individuals.
And a second example, one for the elders.
Be like Jehovah.
Treat each member of the family as an individual.
Don't lump them all in together.
Not at our second point.
We can make our Bible reading more enjoyable.
If we try to fill in the blanks, then that's something that our Bible dramas do.
They fill in the blanks for us.
Now, let's illustrate.
Let's consider the example of Queen Esther and the King's Son.
Now, you remember the story.
King of Hazueras, who was understood to be Xerxes I,
was displeased with Queen Vashtai and he decided he was going to replace her.
So a call went out, enter the whole Persian Empire for the most beautiful women
to be brought to the palace.
And Esther was among them.
Now, the women were placed under the care of a man named Haggai,
and his job was to get them ready to meet the King.
Well, when we read Esther chapter 2 and verse 9,
we smell trouble.
Let's read it.
And you see if you can figure out what trouble is looming here.
Esther chapter 2 and verse 9.
Remember, we're trying to fill in the blanks, we'll try to imagine.
Now, the young woman, Esther, was pleasing to him, Haggai,
and won his favor.
Now, this is a competition.
Keep that in mind. This is a competition.
So he promptly arranged for her beauty treatments and her diet.
Wait a minute. That's another detail we'll have to pursue some time.
Esther was Jewish. She was trying to hide the fact that she was Jewish.
And there were so many things that Jews couldn't eat.
How did she handle that?
That's for another day. That's Karyon.
And talking about Haggai, it says,
he assigned it to her seven selected young women from the King's house.
He also transferred her and her young attendants to the best place in the house of the women.
Do you smell trouble? You see the problem?
Peripherential treatment.
This is a competition.
Probably there's a lot of jealousy going on among the candidates.
And now Haggai is doing everything in his power to help Esther to win the King's heart.
How do you suppose that went down? It could have led to big trouble.
And here's another factor.
What about the King's wives?
Now, there was only one Queen.
But a haziurus had many wives. Some say he had 330 wives.
Now, when Vashthai was deposed,
who do you suppose expected to become the Queen, the number two wife?
And yet, instead of going into the harem and choosing someone,
they went outside the palace even to women who didn't have a royal blood.
How do you suppose that went down?
And now think about this.
Some scholars believe that although Vashthai was deposed as Queen,
she didn't leave the palace,
that she just couldn't ever see the King again.
If she was still there as some scholars believe,
was she plotting in the background?
This could have been a very difficult situation.
But Esther, two verse 15, tells us something very interesting about Esther.
We're going to read just the end of verse 15.
Esther too, at the end of verse 15,
it says, all a while,
Esther was winning the favor of everyone who saw her.
Esther avoided the landmines.
What does that tell us?
She was not only a very beautiful woman,
she had a beautiful, godly personality,
a winning personality.
Well, we said this was about Esther and the King's son.
Who is the King's son, the heir?
Well, we met him at the convention this past summer.
He was the man who was so nice to Nehemiah.
Artazerxes.
And if the historians have their facts straight,
Artazerxes would have been only three years old
when Esther married his father.
Now, history tells us that as King's approach ago,
Artazerxes had a very nice personality.
He was mild, peaceable kind,
so unlike his father, who had a terrible temper.
We have to ask, did Esther have anything to do
with the pleasant disposition of Artazerxes?
Maybe she did. Who knows?
We're using our imagination.
We're trying to fill in the blanks.
Well, we haven't discussed anything earth-shaking here,
and that isn't the point of this talk.
But if you investigate the details and fill in the blanks,
it'll contribute to the pleasure you derive from reading the Bible.
And if Bible reading is a pleasant experience for you,
you'll have no trouble to arrange a schedule of daily Bible reading.
Enjoy!